this is the Natural History Museum in
Rotterdam the Netherlands where I work
as a curator um an ordinary day at work
can pass without much excitement but on
June 5th
1995 a loud bang against the window
changed my life and ended that of a duck
when I heard this bang I looked out of
the window and I saw this this was the
duck it died because of the collision
with the glass but next to it was a live
duck and please pay attention both are
of the male
sex then this
happened the live duck mounted the dead
duck and started to copulate well I'm a
biologist I'm an Orit olist I said to
myself this is something
wrong one is life one is dead that must
be
necrophilia and remember both are of the
male sex homosexual Necro
Ilia so I sat
down took my notes took pictures and I
could do so for about 75
minutes then I got hungry I wanted to go
home but before I did that I really had
to collect the duck for the collection
of the
museum and of course I checked the sex
of the dead duck and here's a rare slide
of a duck's penis so it was indeed of
the male sex so what do you do when you
see something new to science you publish
it well it took me about six years to
decide to do that because I couldn't
explain this
Behavior I could tell the story in a bar
at a birthday party at the coffee
machine but I couldn't share it with my
peers in the end I did it the first case
of homosexual necrophilia and the M duck
so here's the situation
again a is my office from where I heard
the bang B is where the duck hit the
glass C is from where I watched
it about six people read my
paper but
then I got a message from Mark Abrams
from Harvard University telling me
you've won a prize you've won the EG
Nobel Prize said the EG Nobel Prize
shouldn't this message come from
Stockholm no it came from Cambridge
Massachusetts and IG Noble prizes they
honor achievements that first make
people laugh and then make them
think and the goal is to make more
people interested in
science so I said yes that's a nice
price so I went to the
ceremony and the ceremony is very
special because real Nobel laurates and
you see about 12 Nobel laurates here
give the prizes to the EG Nobel Prize
winners and you get 60 seconds to say
something and here's the deck there you
go
okay winning this IG Noble Prize changed
my life people started sending me all
kinds of duck related
things I have a I have a huge
collection um but more
importantly I became a kind of
specialist in remarkable animal behavior
and if somewhere on this planet a bird
or a mammal behaves badly I know of it
first there are the
mistakes this is the um this is a moose
trying to mate with a bronze statue of a
bison this is this is in Minnesota
2004 this this is in the Netherlands
last year April a frog trying to
copulate with a
goldfish and now we're now this is
serious science this is the first ever
victim of homosexual necrophilia in a
ground scel the specimen uh was
collected in 1959 is still kept in the
Bell Museum and
Minnesota here are barn swallows a
roadkill in Hong Kong
2004 turkeys in wi Wisconsin and if you
if you take a look at the other pictures
you see the the the famous turkeys of
the experiments they did in the 50s in
the US which concluded that turkeys
copulate with almost everything
including a detached
head but look
here what's wrong with this picture the
position these are these are can toads
in Australia by the way and these came
in just a month ago from the Netherlands
uh take a good look um you see the
position of the female is lying on its
back and the missionary position is not
done in Birds besides the duck was dead
for two days so there when there was my
theory I thought well death has to be
sudden and in the copular copular
copulatory position to have
necrofilia possible I don't know where
this will end um well to end this now a
more serious matter you're all invited
to join me at June 5th uh 5 to6 for dead
duck day we do it every year we um
congregate at the Natural History Museum
in Rotterdam to um uh to remember the
bird that hit the window
and to discuss new ways to prevent birds
from colliding with glass because that
is one of the major causes of death in
Birds
worldwide when that's over we go to a
local Chinese
restaurant we have a six course duck
dinner I hope to see you next year on
June 5th thank you
[Applause]